About Us | MIT OpenCourseWare | Free Online Course Materials search GIVE NOW about ocw help & faqs contact us Since 2001, MIT OpenCourseWare has been creating new opportunities for
            millions of learners and educators, sharing  Open Educational Resources
            (OER) from MIT and helping to lead a global revolution in free access to knowledge. MIT OpenCourseWare continues to build on this foundation. With a new web
            platform, ever-growing content, and collaborations across the vibrant open
            education ecosystem, we're creating a world of more equitable and inclusive
            education for all. MIT OpenCourseWare is a free and open
            collection of material from thousands of MIT
            courses, covering the entire MIT curriculum. Knowledge is your reward. Use OCW to guide your own
            life-long learning, or to teach others. MIT does not offer
            credit or certification to users of OCW – and asks
            for nothing in return. No enrollment or registration. Freely browse and use OCW
            materials at your own pace. There's no signup, and no start or end
            dates. Made for sharing. Download files for later. Send to friends
            and colleagues. Modify, remix, and reuse (just remember to cite OCW
            as the source.) The OCW @20 Vision Over our first 20 years, we’ve unlocked access to knowledge,
            helped launch the global OER movement, and
            opened MIT's full curriculum to the world. And we'll
            keep growing and evolving. Our new platform, which you are now using, brings mobile
            users fully into OCW's global community…provides more powerful
            and insightful ways to discover the content you need…and will
            keep OCW a vibrant and current reflection of MIT’s world-changing
            teaching and learning. Here's what's in store in the months and years to come... More emerging knowledge about the world’s biggest challenges,
          such as improving equity,  tackling climate change, and building
          the future of computing and artificial intelligence. More dynamic media like video lectures, podcasts, interactive
          assessments, and new forms like augmented and virtual reality. More inspiring examples of MIT's "mind, hand, and heart" approach
          that deeply engages learners and teachers in real-world problems. More support for educators teaching with Open Educational Resources (OER), adapting
          and remixing OCW content to maximize cultural relevance for their students. More collaborations across the OER ecosystem, working together to advance educational
          equity through open content and practices. OCW Milestones 2001-2005 OCW is announced in The New York Times and in an MIT press conference . Pilot website of 50 courses followed by 2003 official website launch with 500 courses. OCW adopts a Creative Commons license . OpenCourseWare Consortium forms (now called Open Education Global . The first OCW mirror site is established in Africa. 2011-2015 MIT launches MITx online courses, complementing OCW’s open course materials while extending commitment to open learning. OCW Educator project begins, sharing the “how” as well as the “what” of MIT education. OCW website exceeds one billion page views and 200 million lifetime visits. 2021+ OCW celebrates its 20th anniversary and two decades of open sharing ( video ). New OCW platform launches: mobile responsive, enhanced search and more 440 OCW mirror sites are installed around the world. Over 300 million lifetime visits to OCW website and YouTube channel. 2006-2010 2007: OCW achieves its original goal to represent MIT’s complete curriculum, with more than 1,800 courses. (View celebration video and site on Internet Archive .) The OCW website exceeds 100 million lifetime visits. 2,000 courses are published. 225 OCW mirror sites are installed around the world. 2016-2020 OCW becomes the most-subscribed .edu channel on YouTube . New MIT Open Learning Library launches in 2019, offering new, self-paced learning options complementing OCW and MITx. Chalk Radio podcast launches in February 2020. OCW supports learners around the world as the COVID-19 pandemic disrupts education. 2001-2005 OCW is announced in The New York Times and in an MIT press conference . Pilot website of 50 courses followed by 2003 official website launch with 500 courses. OCW adopts a Creative Commons license . OpenCourseWare Consortium forms (now called Open Education Global . The first OCW mirror site is established in Africa. 2006-2010 2007: OCW achieves its original goal to represent MIT’s complete curriculum, with more than 1,800 courses. (View celebration video and site on Internet Archive .) The OCW website exceeds 100 million lifetime visits. 2,000 courses are published. 225 OCW mirror sites are installed around the world. 2011-2015 MIT launches MITx online courses, complementing OCW’s open course materials while extending commitment to open learning. OCW Educator project begins, sharing the “how” as well as the “what” of MIT education. OCW website exceeds one billion page views and 200 million lifetime visits. 2016-2020 OCW becomes the most-subscribed .edu channel on YouTube . New MIT Open Learning Library launches in 2019, offering new, self-paced learning options complementing OCW and MITx. Chalk Radio podcast launches in February 2020. OCW supports learners around the world as the COVID-19 pandemic disrupts education. 2021+ OCW celebrates its 20th anniversary and two decades of open sharing ( video ). New OCW platform launches: mobile responsive, enhanced search and more 440 OCW mirror sites are installed around the world. Over 300 million lifetime visits to OCW website and YouTube channel. chevron_left Previous chevron_right Next Beyond Course Materials While OCW is most known for free course materials, there’s more to
          OCW than just syllabi, lecture videos, notes and problem assignments
          from MIT classes. OCW Educator The OCW Educator project shares teaching inspirations from MIT
              faculty for colleagues at the Institute and around the world. Educators start here Many OCW courses include an “Instructor Insights” section for
              practicing teachers, covering topics such as course design, active
              learning methods, and strategies to engage learners. Find courses with Instructor Insights Chalk Radio Listen to OCW wherever you go. On this podcast , meet the instructors
              behind some of MIT’s most interesting courses, from nuclear physics to film appreciation
              to ethical responsibilities of computing. Open Textbooks OCW includes a growing collection of free open textbooks,
              perfect for educators to use and adapt in their teaching,
              and for all learners to guide their studies. Explore Open Textbooks on OCW MIT Open Learning Library These free online MIT courses feature sequences of short videos
              with auto-graded assessments for instant feedback. Like OCW, the
              Open Learning Library is always open for self-guided learning, and
              does not include live support, discussion forums, or certificates of completion. Explore Open Learning Library courses President's Message MIT President Sally Kornbluth We almost take for granted the idea that an enormous amount of outstanding educational content is available to anyone in the world with an internet connection. Yet the fact that this is now the norm has a great deal to do with a groundbreaking project launched at MIT in 2001. OpenCourseWare changed the landscape of education, and it continues to inspire students, teachers and lifelong learners around the globe to follow their curiosity wherever it leads. Sally Kornbluth February 2024 The Next Generation of OCW Our Team OCW Staff Jennifer Carter Technical Project Manager Peter Chipman Digital Publication Specialist Elizabeth DeRienzo Senior Publication Manager Maureen Fahey Senior Video Editor Alicia Franke Digital Publication Specialist Sarah Hansen Assistant Director, Open Education Innovation Stephanie Hodges Data Systems Specialist Reese Jenkins Digital Publication Specialist Peter B. Kaufman Senior Program Officer for Resource Development and Strategic Initiatives Sharon Lin Digital Publication Specialist Cathleen Nalezyty Digital Publication Specialist Shiba Nemat-Nasser Digital Publication Specialist Curt Newton Director Yvonne Ng Annual Giving and Donor Relations Officer Duyen Nguyen Assistant Officer, Annual Fund and Communications Brett Paci Assistant Director, Media Production Aline Passos Intellectual Property Coordinator Angela Pignatiello Administrative Assistant Jason Player Web Production Specialist Shira Segal Collaborations and Engagement Manager Cheryl Siegel Senior Publication and Social Media Manager Amy Taber Collaborations Program Coordinator Yunpeng Wang Digital Publication Specialist Geoff Wilson Intellectual Property Manager Alicia Franke Digital Publication Specialist Aline Passos Intellectual Property Coordinator Amy Taber Collaborations Program Coordinator Angela Pignatiello Administrative Assistant Brett Paci Assistant Director, Media Production Cathleen Nalezyty Digital Publication Specialist Cheryl Siegel Senior Publication and Social Media Manager Curt Newton Director Duyen Nguyen Assistant Officer, Annual Fund and Communications Elizabeth DeRienzo Senior Publication Manager Geoff Wilson Intellectual Property Manager Jason Player Web Production Specialist Jennifer Carter Technical Project Manager Maureen Fahey Senior Video Editor Peter B. Kaufman Senior Program Officer for Resource Development and Strategic Initiatives Peter Chipman Digital Publication Specialist Reese Jenkins Digital Publication Specialist Sarah Hansen Assistant Director, Open Education Innovation Sharon Lin Digital Publication Specialist Shiba Nemat-Nasser Digital Publication Specialist Shira Segal Collaborations and Engagement Manager Stephanie Hodges Data Systems Specialist Yunpeng Wang Digital Publication Specialist Yvonne Ng Annual Giving and Donor Relations Officer chevron_left Previous chevron_right Next OCW Faculty Advisory Committee Hal Abelson Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Gerardo Berlanga Molina Undergraduate student, Mechanical Engineering Michel DeGraff Professor of Linguistics, Director of MIT-Haiti Initiative Stephanie Han Undergraduate student, Finance Nancy Kanwisher Professor of Cognitive Science, Department of Brain & Cognitive
          Sciences R. Scott Kemp Associate Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering; Director, MIT Laboratory for Nuclear Security and Policy Eric Klopfer Professor and Section Head, Comparative Media Studies/Writing;
          Director of Scheller Teacher Education Program Robert Miller Distinguished Professor of Computer Science, Education Officer for Computer Science Caitlin Mueller Associate Professor, Department of Architecture; Associate Professor,
          Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Rosalind Picard Professor, Program in Media Arts and Sciences; Faculty Chair, MIT
          Mind+Hand+Heart Krishna Rajagopal Professor of Physics Shannon Shen Graduate student, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Michael Short (Chair) Associate Professor, Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering Ex-Officio Members Christopher Capozzola Senior Associate Dean for Open Learning, Professor of History Curt Newton Director, MIT OpenCourseWare Anjali Sastry Faculty Director of J-WEL, Associate Dean for Open Learning You are leaving MIT OpenCourseWare close Please be advised that external sites may have terms and conditions, 
        including license rights, that differ from ours. MIT OCW is not responsible 
        for any content on third party sites, nor does a link suggest an endorsement 
        of those sites and/or their content. Stay Here Continue