 ArXiv:2506.2407777v1  [astro-ph.GA] 30 Jun 2025 . BAAA, Vol. 66, 2024 . The distribution of metals in simulated . simulations of . simulated. galaxies .
 Galaxies form due to continuous accretion of gaseous material towards the centre of dark matter, which gives rise to stellar discs once the gas reaches high density . Analysis of stellar age distribution shows that stars in the inner regions of the disc are born at ea .
 This scheme, typical of galactic formation processes, is known as the ‘inside-out’ scenario . It is closely related to the global properties of a significant fraction of the population of spiral galaxies .
 Dark haloes grow hierarchically, both via smooth accretion of matter from the intergalac-ishlytic medium and through collisions and mergers with smaller structures . As stars evolve and reach the end of their life cycles, new, heavier elements are synthesised in their interiors and injected into the interstellar medium (ISM)
 Spheroids typically formed at earlier times, are expected to be composed of old stars with high levels of α-elements and low levels of iron . galactic discs are thought to be formed after the first several billion years of evolution . Younger stars expected to contain younger stars with low α-element abundance but enriched in iron .
 The colour map spans five orders of magnitude in projected density using a logarithmic scale. The white arrows show the associated velocity field. The first ‘c’ in the units stands for comoving coordinates. The age-metallicity relation for Au9, a reference galaxy, is shown here.
 The Auriga Project (Grand et al., 2017) simulated high-resolution Milky Way-like galaxies in a cosmological environment . The simulations follow the evo-generation of matter from z = 127 to z = 0 in a ΛCDM universe . Among the many galaxy formation processes included in the simulations are primordial and metal-line cooling, a uniform ultraviolet background field, starforming based on gas density, magnetic fields, activegalactic nuclei, and chemical feedback from Type Ia and Type II supernovae .
 Of the 30 galaxies of the Auriga project, we consider Au9 only a subset of galaxies that have been subject to a smooth evolution and have well-developed discs . Au9 is a galaxy with a quiescent formation that has not had major mergers in the last sev-eral billion years .
 We classify stars based on a simple dy-centricnamical method using two parameters: the circularity-centricparameter ϵ (e.g., Scannapieco et al., 2009) and the nor-insured gravitational potential . The normalised potential for each star is the gravi-agicallytational potential e n .
 Using the parameters ϵrot = 0.4 (the threshold to separate rotating from non-rotating components) and  referior˜˜e0 = −0.6 ( the threshold between the most and least-bound stellar structures) we define the galactic compo-centricnents as follows . The disc consists of rotating stars (ϵ ≥ϵrot) and the halo consists of non ( ϵ) and less (˜e) bound stars (youge) stars . Figure 2 shows the distribution of stars in the decompo-glybAAA, 66, 2024Iza et al.
 Figure 3 shows a negative correlation between the [Fe/H] abundance and the age of the stars in the galaxy with a wider deviation for older stars . Figure uses a logarithmic colour map for particle counts . It is clear that the vast majority of the galaxies inhabit the disc following an orderedrotation with ϵ ≈1.4.6764 .
 Spheroidal components tend to be populated by older stars, with median stellar ages around ∼9–10 Gyr for the bulge and halo . Bulges have [Fe/H] abundance similar to that of the discs but with greater spread . In general terms, there is a clear distinction of the stellar popu-centriclation in each galactic com .
 Haloes are located in the low metallicity (with a disproportionatelydistribution peaking at [Fe/H] ∼−0.7), high stellar age(∼10 Gyr) corner of the diagram . The bulge presents a somewhat intermediate population between that of the halo and the disc .
 An analysis of the distribution of metals at z = 0 in simulations of Milky Way-mass .galaxies from the Auriga project . We found that the components of Auriga galaxies share a common behaviour: haloes are populated by old, worrisomeiron-poor stars .
 The distribution of metals in Milky Way-type galaxies will be complemented with an analysis of the origin and evolving evolution of the distribution of stellar ages and metals in a future work . The findings will be further complemented by a further study of stellar age-metallicity in the Milky Way galaxy .
 In the x-axis we indicate the stellar age in Gyr and in the [Fe/H] abundance ratio we show the abundance ratio . The colour map indicates the amount of stars in each pixel in a logarithmic scale . In each panel, the symbol indicates the location of the median .
 The median [O/Fe] abundance versus median [Fe/H] abundance at z = 0.30/Fe is a comparison of abundance versus abundance . Each point in these scatter plots is a galaxy-wide galaxy with galaxy-like characteristics .
